# INSY6112-A1-
My INSY6112 A1 in case i need proof that ive done it, and post it on github, there is no organisation to put it so ill just leave this here incase
Qustion 2 is uploaded above 
Question 1 with refrencses

Definition of the recommended database type  
For the given scenario, of a large scale Social Media Platform I have decided to 
recommend a NoSQL database. A NoSQL database is a high performance, non 
relational database that is designed to provide a flexible, non  relational approach in 
order to store and manage  data. NoSQL database  are easy to use , scalable and 
resilient. NoSQL is able to store unstructured and/or semi-structured data, mostly in key 
pairs or/and in JSON documents (Vettor, et al 2020) 
Motivation of why this particular data base was chosen  
The reason why the NoSQL database was chosen is due to several points. The first point 
is that by using a NoSQL database the system will easily be able to scale up (Vettor, et al 
2020),  in order to be able to meet the demand of users, this is done by adding additional 
servers. The second point is that NoSQL databases are flexible, due to the flexible 
nature of NoSQL databases it is able to store multiple different formats of data, in the 
case of social media platforms such data would include live streams, photos, videos 
and messages.(Vettor, et al 2020) due to the flexibility of NoSQL database it will make 
sure that new features of the Platform will easily be able to be integrated into the 
system. The third point is NoSQL databases are better than relational databases when 
processing data in real time, this will lead to lower latency which is important for a social 
media platform to have (MongoDB, 2024) 
Discussion of what kinds of data will be stored in this database 
There will be several types of data that will be stored in this database. Some of such data 
will be user information like there account details, contacts. Another type of data that 
manly focuses on the content that the user views will be stored in this database such as 
posts, Gifs, videos and live streams. The data gained by user interactions will also be 
stored in the database such as comments, likes and favourites. The final types of data 
that will be stored are the system logs and analytical data processed by the 
platform.(juicer, 2021) 
Definition of four types of the recommended databases  
1. Document database- a document database is a type of NoSQL database that are able to 
store data into documents that are similar to JSON documents. This allows for nested 
structures and complex structures. This type of NoSQL database works best in handling 
all the posts and metadata (MongoDB, 2024). 
2. Key value database – key value database is a type of NoSQL database that store 
information in pairs of values and keys. By storing data in this way it becomes extremely 
quick in order to retrieve data. This database would be best used in order to cache user 
data as well as their notifications. (MongoDB, 2024) 
3. Graph database- Graph database is a type of NoSQL database that store data in nodes 
as well as edges, nodes will store data about users while edges will store the 
relationship between the nodes. This database works great for highly connected data 
such as the likes that a social media platform generates (MongoDB, 2024) 
4. Wide column databases – “Wide column databases is a type of NoSQL that stores data 
in tables, rows and dynamic columns”(MongoDB, 2024). Wide column databases are 
f
 lexible, take up a minimum amount of storage aswell as enhancing performance .This 
type would be used in order to track users over a period of time. (MongoDB, 2024) 
The three Vs of big DATA  
The three V’s of big data refer to Volume, Velocity and Variety (Lutkevich, 2023). For the 
f
 irst V, Volume in the context of a social media platform it refers to the large amount of 
data that is generated by the many users that are participating on the platform, this data 
refers to what they have liked, shared, posted and commented. The Second V is 
Velocity, in the context of a social media platform velocity refers to the speed in which 
all the data is generated (Lutkevich, 2023), due to the social media platform having 
millions of users there is a very high velocity of data that is being generated, this is 
because each action that a user does will generate data (licking, commenting, posting, 
etc, etc) creating Terabytes of data every second. The Final V refers to Variety, this is the 
different types of data being generated on the platform (Lutkevich, 2023). In the context 
of a Social media platform there are multiple types of data being produced for example 
posts, comments, likes and videos, are each a different type of data that is being 
produced.


Refrenceses 
juicer (2021). Your Social Media Data: What’s Collected and How is it Used? - Juicer Social. 
[online] www.juicer.io. Available at: https://www.juicer.io/blog/your-social-media-data-what-s
collected-and-how-is-it-used [Accessed 20 Aug. 2025]. 
Lutkevich, B. (2023). What is 3Vs (volume, variety and velocity) ? - Definition from WhatIs.com. 
[online] WhatIs.com. Available at: https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/definition/3Vs 
[Accessed 21 Aug. 2025]. 
MongoDB (2024). What Is NoSQL? NoSQL Databases Explained. [online] MongoDB. Available at: 
https://www.mongodb.com/resources/basics/databases/nosql-explained [Accessed 20 Aug. 
2025]. 
Vettor, R et al 2020. Relational vs NoSQL  data. [Online] Available at: 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/cloud-native/relational-vs-nosql-data 
[Accessed 20 August 2024]
